.\" Manpage for netdoc.
.\" Install: cp netdoc.1 /usr/local/share/man/man1/ && mandb
.TH NETDOC 1 "2026-05-21" "netdoc 1.0.0" "Network Diagnostic"
.SH NAME
netdoc \- single-binary network diagnostic, 14 deep checks per host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B netdoc
.RI [ host | URL ]
.RI [ flags ]
.br
.B netdoc \-f
.I targets.txt
.RI [ flags ]
.br
.B netdoc
.I host
.B \-\-history
.RI [ N ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B netdoc
runs 14 deep network-diagnostic checks against a host in one command and produces a plain-language verdict naming the first thing to fix.
It combines, in a single unprivileged process, the depth of
.BR dig (1),
.BR delv (1),
.BR mtr (1),
.BR traceroute (1),
.BR curl (1),
.BR openssl (1) " s_client,"
.BR testssl.sh (1),
.BR sslyze (1),
.BR nmap (1)
(single-target),
SSL Labs, securityheaders.com, Hardenize, internet.nl, DNSViz, MXToolbox, and whatsmydns.net.
.PP
Distinguishing features:
.IP \(bu 2
Single unprivileged binary. No sudo, no setcap, no Administrator. Cross-platform (Linux, macOS, Windows).
.IP \(bu 2
Bit-accurate TLS 1.3 0-RTT detection via a hand-rolled handshake parsing the raw NewSessionTicket early_data.max_early_data_size field.
.IP \(bu 2
Unprivileged ECMP-aware path discovery on Linux via IP_RECVERR socket error queue (IPv4 TCP-source-port, IPv4 UDP, IPv6 flow-label).
.IP \(bu 2
nmap -sU-class UDP open/closed/filtered classification on Linux.
.IP \(bu 2
Zero telemetry. No third-party API calls, no cloud SaaS, no usage tracking.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-json
Emit a structured JSON report. Forces no-color.
.TP
.BI \-\-format " fmt"
Output format. One of:
.BR json " | " html " | " md " | " markdown .
.TP
.BI \-\-timeout " duration"
Per-check timeout (default
.IR 5s ).
Accepts Go-style duration strings (e.g.
.IR 30s ,
.IR 2m ).
.TP
.BI \-\-dns " spec"
DNS transport.
.IR spec " is one of " system " (default), " udp ", " tcp ", " dot ", " doh ", " doq ,
optionally followed by
.IR :server .
Example:
.IR dot:1.1.1.1 ", " doh:https://cloudflare-dns.com/dns-query ", " doq:dns.quad9.net .
.TP
.BI \-\-ports " spec"
Scan the given ports.
.I spec
is a comma-separated list (e.g.
.IR 22,80,443 ),
range (e.g.
.IR 1-1024 ),
or one of the presets
.IR top20 ", " top100 ", " top1000 .
Open ports are banner-grabbed (SSH/SMTP/...) or actively probed (10 protocols including SSH/LDAP/PG/Redis/ES/Memcached/Mongo/NTP/DNS/SMB2/Telnet/RDP).
.TP
.BI \-\-ecs " [cidr]"
EDNS Client-Subnet probe. Pass a CIDR (or comma-separated list of CIDRs), or no argument for the default 5-continent bouquet (US/DE/JP/BR/AU).
.TP
.BI \-\-check " list"
Run only the named checks (comma-separated). Valid: dns, domain, delegation, tcp, latency, path, tls, http, security, discovery, mail, reputation, ipv6, ports.
.TP
.BI \-\-profile " name"
Use a curated check preset:
.IR fast " (sub-second snapshot: dns + tcp + tls + http), "
.IR web " (skip mail/reputation), "
.IR mail " (mail-server focus), "
.IR full " (everything except ports), "
.IR paranoid " (everything)."
The
.B \-\-check
flag overrides
.B \-\-profile
when both are set.
.TP
.BI \-\-diff " baseline.json"
Compare current scan to a stored baseline. Exit code 1 on any drift.
.TP
.BI \-\-write-out " template"
curl-style scriptable output template with 35+ variables (${time_total}, ${grade}, ${jarm}, ...). Suppresses normal output.
.TP
.B \-\-watch
Live mode: re-run every check on an interval, redraw in place. Default 5s interval.
.TP
.BI \-\-interval " duration"
Set the
.B \-\-watch
interval explicitly.
.TP
.BI \-f " path" ", " \-\-file " path"
Batch mode: read newline-delimited targets from
.IR path .
Blank lines and # comments are ignored. Pass
.I -
to read from stdin.
.TP
.BI \-\-concurrency " N"
Batch parallelism. Default 8.
.TP
.BI \-\-history " [N]"
Display the last N (default 10) scans for the given target from ~/.netdoc/history.jsonl.
.TP
.B \-\-no-history
Skip appending this scan to ~/.netdoc/history.jsonl.
.TP
.B \-\-no-color
Disable colored output.
.TP
.B \-v ", " \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help and exit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Healthy: every check passed.
.TP
.B 1
At least one check failed, OR
.B \-\-diff
detected drift from baseline, OR batch mode found any unhealthy target.
.TP
.B 2
Usage error: unrecognized flag, malformed argument, missing target.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Single-target scan:
.PP
.RS
.EX
$ netdoc github.com
.EE
.RE
.PP
Bit-accurate 0-RTT check:
.PP
.RS
.EX
$ netdoc www.cloudflare.com --json | jq '.checks[]|select(.name=="TLS").detail.zero_rtt'
.EE
.RE
.PP
Batch mode against a fleet:
.PP
.RS
.EX
$ netdoc -f targets.txt --profile fast --concurrency 16
.EE
.RE
.PP
Generate a Markdown report for an issue tracker:
.PP
.RS
.EX
$ netdoc api.example.com --format md > report.md
.EE
.RE
.PP
Show drift across recent scans:
.PP
.RS
.EX
$ netdoc github.com --history 20
.EE
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.netdoc/history.jsonl
Per-scan JSONL history. Append-only. Each line is one
.B historyRecord
JSON object (timestamp, target, healthy, fix_first, report).
.TP
.I $NETDOC_HISTORY
Override path for the history file (used by tests and per-tenant separation).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
When set, disables colored output (same as
.BR \-\-no-color ).
.TP
.B NETDOC_HISTORY
Override the default history.jsonl path.
.SH BRAND PROMISES
.IP \(bu 2
Unprivileged-by-default. Features that genuinely need raw sockets are
.B stubbed
on the affected platform, not silently degraded.
.IP \(bu 2
Single binary. No external runtime dependencies.
.IP \(bu 2
Zero telemetry, zero SaaS, zero API keys. Everything runs locally.
.IP \(bu 2
Bit-accurate where possible. Cryptographic primitives are cross-verified against RFC test vectors (RFC 8448, RFC 5246).
.IP \(bu 2
No vuln-scanner creep, no headless browser, no subdomain enumeration. Diagnostic tool, not pentest framework.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dig (1),
.BR mtr (1),
.BR traceroute (1),
.BR curl (1),
.BR nmap (1),
.BR openssl (1)
.PP
Full documentation:
.UR https://github.com/firaszaarouri/netdoc
.UE
.SH AUTHOR
The netdoc contributors. License: MIT.
